science fiction you wish you had one who
really enjoys blowing things up and he's
an author to the newest in his book
series for kids is Nick and Tesla's
super cyborg gadget club please welcome
our friend science Bob flu Felder hello
right here now we've got some exciting
stuff to get to and I waste even one
second time so and I found that if you
want to get people kind of excited
engage for science you show them how it
affects their lives every day okay so I
figured maybe we could demonstrate how
an internal combustion engine works
very good okay something in a vehicle
correct right here yes sir our cars have
been powered by internal busting engines
for decades and inside of a car just
real quick there's a chamber a injector
injects fuel it becomes vaporized gets
compressed a spark goes off the spark
plug that causes an explosion mm-hmm
which pushes a piston down nut shoots a
camshaft around and your car goes
forward I'm saying hmm but you lost me
right at the beginning here cars are
powered by explosions okay
owns a thousand explosions going off
underneath your hood oh that's so
exciting I wish I'd known that it would
have had a lot more fun driving all
right here we go so I figured let's see
we can demonstrate that and we got that
you're gonna need to put a hard hat on
here all right
you like wearing hard hats for these
things don't you yeah and just like
science Bob the Builder so leaves what
we've got we've got this is gonna
represent our chamber okay
pre-loaded the chambers with ethanol
fuel mm-hm
um and so that's all in there just a
little bout maybe like a half a teaspoon
in there and then we need an igniter and
in this car would be a spark plug for us
we're gonna use some barbecue lighter so
you can grab that boxes oh why don't my
barbecue lighters at home ever work
please these hopefully well so when we
push these each one is hooked up to two
cans okay and that should ignite the the
fuel in there and we should be able to
pop somebody is your paint in the can
there's no paint
Oh does he need oxygen okay all right
all right so you might want to step back
just a little bit here all right yeah
I'll step way back huh how do you see
how the engine works yeah so would you
press are you can press any or any order
you want okay more once well we should
have like a safety thing like on the
counter well
yours are working much better than mine
Wow this candle it's flying everywhere
that doesn't seem safe at all tonight I
want to put these out here no no don't
put them out
to replay here because we have it we
might as well you can see here we hit
that igniter and I actually I may have
paid a little bit earlier than I should
have look at that that was dangerous
actually in fact I feel like it give me
one of those things like on the fourth
of July where we think the firecracker
is done but then it blows up with some
jacket near it yeah possible yeah static
will set that what should we do then
just get away from it yeah yeah I think
that lows I think we're good okay let's
go over there and get away from this
alright see what you like physics yeah
sure I'm ready for I'm gonna keep my hat
and my helmet on okay all right come on
over here okay and we're gonna have you
take a seat on this looks like a
teeter-totter but it actually is not um
this spins around so it's kind of like a
merry-go-round oh that's fun yeah
have you ever heard of something called
the Coriolis effect I have heard of that
I don't know what it is but I've heard
of it so uh Coriolis effect has to do
with rotating objects and and it it's
why we have hurricane spin one way in
one Hemisphere and the other way in the
other hand this is very romantic I feel
like I'm in one of those movies where
joining hands that are in the park
alright so this is a what about a four
and a half foot shot which I was sorry
Guillermo I'm aiming at you're nuts
so this should this should be pretty
easy to take a shot at I don't know if
you want to try it still or do you want
to try it into the trash project just to
try to shoot in there and what you'll
say is that it's actually much harder
than it looks
yeah you have to account for the
spinning exactly oh oh
thanks careful oh can I throw up in this
trash barrel oh wow this is very hard
like I eat in front of us and I can't
seem to get it oh boy
I feel like Shaq at the free-throw line
oh what a counteracted this Coriolis
stuff is for the birds
thank you here mom oh my god so you
gotta throw out a link up to this there
you go yeah thanks
hold on a sec oh this isn't Wow I never
wins and this is Coriolis is ruining
everything
I'm gonna try to throw it to you is this
that thing that back in McConaughey was
talking about the flat circle okay there
we go
what's wrong here well we're going to my
channel yet oh we're up to you oh my god
you're going fast I don't think you had
up oh all right
look at off this thing okay I feel that
whistle okay
yeah no more Wow okay glad I kept the
helmet on
I never went that faster I feel very
drunk right now alright come on over
here
hi so I'm kind of excited the Coriolis
effect alright by the way Coriolis
effect does not affect toilets toilets
have nothing to do with what hemisphere
they're in oh so in case I don't want to
spin around on the toilet it wouldn't be
a problem
alright I'm very excited uh tonight we
are actually going to be demonstrating
the world's strongest Tesla coil gun oh
good I hope I'm gonna throw up on right
Sarek there are guns are coming out here
and we're gonna have to put them on
there actually portable good this is
good I've been wanting to have a Tesla
gun for a long time oh look at that Wow
that's serious so I think a lot Tesla
invented these in the late 1800 cue and
he wanted to make a source of free
electricity and ended up in the process
creating machines that make really
really big sparks okay and um so they've
never really been portable before yeah
I've seen these things in like the
hamburger Schlemmer catalog or something
right and I've been working with some
talented electrical engineers took about
six months you guys built you six months
to build this thing I will know that to
be able to put use it inside okay and so
you'll see that we are on a metal grate
well you have a mirror I don't think I
get down on one foot okay all right
thank you all right and what this does
is it takes uh electricity and ramps it
up to very very high voltages is this
really an experiment or is this the
costume you wear to comic-con a good day
right thank you why do I have these
crazy shoes on so this is gonna keep you
grounded this screen goes to a giant
cable which goes to a spike that's like
two feet in the ground
oh and that way the electricity goes
hopefully to that enough to us all right
so here's we're gonna do I'm gonna come
over here
well kind of do this wild-west style
okay all right and uh you think from
this house has about 120 volts yeah this
will have 80,000 volts coming out of it
Wow yeah this is like what dr. doom
would use or something you know hi you
ready
yeah engage the coil keep your arm nice
and straight there Wow I know this looks
like a special effect but this is really
happening
all right honey fire hold your fire okay
all right so I was wondering how might
be an interesting way to demonstrate
this and I think I have a way we're
gonna bring in some balloons gonna have
a party so we have some balloons and
these spark should create enough heat
that they can actually pop the balloon
and for an added bonus these balloons
are filled with hydrogen gas instead of
helium like you guys know that uh
hydrogen happens to be kind of flammable
oh good all right good are you ready
yeah I'm ready let's take out some ocean
data and I'll shoot this out sure okay
good that was awesome
come here you son of let me listen oh
you're much better at this than me I
think the site is off on mine oh my god
laughs we can
that is something else look at that
that's the hydrogen Catching Fire yes
Wow
what honey I got to bring this home to
my daughter unbelievable science bug flu
fell there everybody this book is called
Nick and Tesla's super cyborg gadget
Club and go to science Bob calm to see
all the other stuff hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel
thanks for watching our video click
right here to subscribe to our Channel
and click right here and I will fall in
love with you guaranteed